ceasefire talks aimed at ending the war
between Israel and Hamas in Gaza are
continuing in the Middle East the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
arrived in Egypt earlier on Tuesday
where he met with the Egyptian president
abdal fat LCC Lincoln says Israel has
accepted a bridging proposal Hamas the
militant group that committed the
October the 7th Terror attacks says the
latest version of The Proposal goes
against what they were offered in early
July
Kareem El go is a journalist joining us
now from Cairo for more on this story
kareim Hamas saying that the current
proposal on the table goes against
earlier agreements made can you tell us
more yeah well it seems that they're not
very happy with what Anthony blinkin
calls the bridge bridging deal uh they
say we had an agreement in July with the
Biden proposal at that time and in this
agreement there was a an agreement that
there was a two phases of exchanging
Israeli hostages and Palestinian
prisoners first in a six month six weeks
period of a ceasefire that then is
extending to a permanent
ceasefire um now they say in this
bridging proposal um there is new
demands by netan packaged with Anthony
blinkin and bringing this proposal the
main points Hamas is unha happy with is
that there seems to be no more guarantee
for a permanent ceasefire in this
package this is to be negotiated in a
later time and the second thing that
they are not happy with is uh that there
is not a full withdrawal by the Israeli
troops from the Gaza Strip they want to
remain in at the Egyptian border to the
Gaza Strip and also in the middle in the
Gaza Strip in a corridor that divides
the Gaza Strip into our northern and
southern parts so Hamas isn't happy with
this
package what about the talks happening
between the Egyptian president and US
Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin well um not much leaking about
this
talk the Egyptian president SCC before
emphasized the danger that this all
might escalate into a wider conflict
something he agrees with with the US um
for sure Egypt is not happy about the
what is sprinted British proposing the
permanent presence presence of the
Israeli Army at the Egyptian border to
the Gaza Strip and at the Rafa Crossing
um that's something that also was
reiterated by Netanyahu again that this
is a demand he will not move away from
uh Egyptian security sources are saying
that there might be a Readiness by the
Hamas and the Egyptian side maybe for um
International Presence at this border
but also that limited to six months but
as I said there's really not much known
about the details of this negotiations
okay so where does all of this leave the
prospects for peace right
now well I mean for sure we have very
very difficult negotiations ahead of us
Hamas is I don't think going to accept
uh that there is not a full withdraw of
the Israeli Army and that there's not
some kind of guarantee for a permanent
ceasefire and as you heard yesterday um
US president uh Joe Biden in the
Democratic Convention he promised that
he will deliver
on ceasefire in the Gaza Strip in the
exchange of hostages and prisoners but
of course for that he needs two sides
not only Israel but also Hamas and Hamas
right now is not very happy kareim Al
goari journalist in Ciro Kim thank you
so much for your
insights you're welcome